\### 3.4 Fiancial Viability

The analysis above demonstrates the potential curtailed energy that could be utilised if this DR system would be implemented based on data in 2017. However, to persuade the stakeholders to invest into this project, we need to prove that there is a financial viability of this project.

To estimate the total value that might be generated from an Orkney wide DR scheme over the next ten years, we make the following necessary assumptions. First, since over the past decades the net migration of Orkney Islands is minimal according to the official migration report(orkney-shetland-eilean-siar-migration-report), we assume that for the next decade the number of household stays stable. Second, we assume the growth of degree of penetration, the number of households who join in this program, follows a linear distribution over the years. Finally, the wholesale and retail price of electricity and the gas price, which are hard to predict, are assumed to be identical over the next ten years as they was in 2017.  

To make this project sustainable, we should consider not only the financial benefits of Kaluza, the DR solution supplier, but also that that of the wind generators and residential consumer. Our goal is to assess that whether there are sufficient net value, after the deduction of implementation costs, to be attractive to all parties involved.  As the wind generators are selling energy that was curtailed at the wholesale price, the generators are guaranteed to make additional financial benefits. However, the residential consumers who join in this DR program switch from using gas for heating to using electricity, and the cost of using electricity to heat is much higher than the cost of using gas to heat. Therefore, the DR program need to fully reimburse the loss of residential consumer who join in this DR program. To make this DR program attractive to the residential consumers, we make the assumption that for the first three years that the wholesale price of electricity will be 50% discounted. Therefore, the additional profit which the generators make will be used to subsidize the loss of households first. The rest of those additional profits, after reimbursing the loss of households, will be divided into two parts. The first part stays with generators so they could make financial benefits by joining in this DR program, and the second part is the financial benefit to the DR solution supplier. Also, we take the cost into consideration by designing a simplified cost structure. Based on our cost structure for DR solution supplier, there are fixed costs per installation of control equipment for each household, and rest of costs, which have been amortized over time since the same infra-structure supports other functions in the company, are simplified into a variable cost per month for each household. 

For assessing the financial viability for the cost of DR solution supplier preciously, we used to NPV, a popular technique for capital budgeting and investment planning to analyze the profitability of a projected investment. Since the above revenue and costs are calculated in terms of each month, we take the discount rate into consideration and calculate the net-present-value, the sum of all present values of all future cash flow, to analyze the profitability of this project in different scenarios of levels of DR penetration, as the financial benefits are directly dependent on the level of the DR penetration. We aim to find the break-even point of the number of households in order to answer the question of how many local households would need to be on this DR scheme to make a financial viability for DR solution supplier. 







\### 3.5 Commerical Value

Moreover, the benefit of this project is assessed not only in terms of financial benefit to Kaluza, but also in terms of social and environmental benefits to the broad community.